CD - Code Deploy
CP - Code Pipeline

Under AWS, we will call this as AWS-DevOps tool.
These are considered to be the Developer component.

Under DevOps, there is a lot of tools, this called as Generic DevOps.

Within AWS, Azure, GCP also they are supporting tools for DevOps, hence they are called as AWS-DevOps / Azure-DevOps / GCP-DevOps

Basically, DevOps helps us to Deliver our project soon, by using DevOps, we can reduce our time, cost as well as effort.

Under this we are going to use services like,
EC2 - 2 (One as Developer machine [where Developer is going to use it for code], another one will act like a production/webserver machine)
S3 - This is going to act like a repository, where the application code from EC2 is going to be pushed to S3 (which is going to replace GIT)
CD - From code, we are going to automate the deployment using Code Deploy (which is going to replace Ansible)
CP - Code Pipeline helps the application to run continously without any manual intervention (which is going to replace Jenkins)
SNS - Simple Notification service is going to helps us for Notifying/Alerting via messages to our subscribers
CW - CloudWatch is going to monitor the entire Architecture
IAM - This won't get involved in the Architectural Diagram, but this supports for providing the needed permissions/roles for the services.

General Steps Information:
1. Create 2 IAM role for bringing internal communication in between the services: EC2- S3- Code Deploy
2. Create IAM user for Developer, as he is the one and only user in this Architecture
3. Creating 2 EC2 server (one for developer, another one for production)
4. Configure Developer into their ec2 server
5. Install the Code Deploy Agent inside the webserver/production machine for deploying the code inside the server
6. Create a sample code in the Developer machine
7. Create an S3 bucket
8. Create Code Deploy Application and push it to S3 bucket from Developer machine for automatic process
9. Create Deployment Group, inorder to specify the server for which the application deployment is going to happen
10. Create Deployment, and this helps to idetify from where you need to deploy the code, here we are going to pick the code from the S3 bucket.
11. Test the Website.

Steps for CodeDeploy:
1. Create full access role (Administrator role) inbetween EC2-S3
2. Create 2nd role for CodeDeploy - create role - Select Code Deploy - Select the use case as CodeDeploy (1st scenario) - Automatically the permissions will be picked - Provide name.
3. Create a user - Developer - Select both Dashboard and CLI access - Under permissions (AmazonS3fullaccess and AWScodedeployfullaccess is enough) but for time-being we are going to provide him Administrator Access.
4. Create a linux instance for Developer - Open all ports.
5. Now, we need to configure EC2 with user, open putty - change into root user (sudo su -) - bring the user (aws configure) - provide the user access and secret key and complete the configuration
6. Create Webserver/Production instance by attaching the role (EC2-S3-fullaccess) - Provide the tag with this reference specification (key: AppName, Value: SampleApp) - Open all ports.
7. Open the machine via putty - switch as root user (sudo su -)
	Now, use the set of commands under it
		1. yum update -y : for updating the linux environment
		2. yum install ruby -y : CodeDeploy Agent was build by ruby, hence we need to install this language
		3. yum install wget -y : This will be available by default, this wget helps to connect with outside url's
		4. wget https://aws-codedeploy-us-east-1.s3.amazonaws.com/latest/install : This url will activate "install" for futher codedeploy agent installation
		5. chmod +x install : As "install" doesn't have executable permission, we are using this command to provide the necessary access
		6. ./install auto : After this command, Codedeploy agent got successfully installed within the server
		7. service codedeploy-agent status : Inorder to know the status and PID (Process ID) of the codedeploy-agent.
8. Now, we are going to develop a sample code on Developer machine
		1. Create a Directory, as we are going to keep all the code inside the directory (mkdir deploy_dir), Go inside the directory, (cd deploy_dir)
		2. Create another directory by representing the application name (mkdir sampleapp) - go inside that directory (cd sampleapp)
		3. Now, create index.html to create the code (vi index.html) (get the code from another document) - [development related file]
		4. Now, I am going to bring another file (vi appspec.yml); this file is going to act like a brain for the automatic process (get the code from another document) - [deployment related file]
		5. Create another directory to keep all the script file into it (mkdir scripts) - go inside the directory (cd scripts)
		6. Now, create 3 different files (vi httpd_install.sh; vi httpd_start.sh; vi httpd_stop.sh) with the scripts (get scripts from another document)
		7. Provide executable permission for all this files (chmod 755 *)
9. Create a S3 bucket with public access (gir-sampleapp01)
10. Go to codedeploy - applications - go to developer machine (under /sampleapp) path, within that put the sampleapp code (from another document) [because under sampleapp path only we got our appspec.yml and from this it is going to take the application.
11. Confirm the application is now available on codedeploy
12. Now, push the application to the s3 bucket - put the command (*** make sure you are changing the name of the bucket on the command) (from another document) - confirm the application has been now available inside s3 bucket like zipped file format.
13. Now, create Deployment Group (in order to specify where the code should be executed) : Go to codedeploy service - applications - select the app - click create deployement group - provide name - attach the service role which we already created via IAM - Deployment type (in-place: as we have only one webserver now)  - select Amazon EC2 instance and provide the tag (Key: AppName, Value: SampleApp) under Environment configuration - Disable load balancer as we have 1 server at this moment
14. Now, create Deployment (in order to specify from where the code should be pushed/captured) : Select creat deployement - under Revision type, specify that the code should be captured from the S3 bucket by specifying the Revision Location.
15. Once the deployment progress was successful, try to check with the Webserver IP where it will be executed with the output application from the (index.html) code file.

Steps for CodePipeline:
1. Create Pipeline - pipelines - create pipeline - Provide name - allowing pipeline to create a new role automatically in IAM - Select Amazon S3 under source (as we got our code inside the s3 bucket) - select bucket name - Under Object key (get it from S3 bucket, open the object where you will be able to see the key) copy paste it - Allow Cloudwatch to monitor (it will automatically monitor if there is any new updates has been done on the code) - Skip build step (as there is only one index.html file [this can be enable if there are multiple files inside the code]) - Under Deploy, select the codedeploy - Select the Application name and Deployment group accordingly.
	Now, Pipeline will proceed forward by checking the source and it will try to deploy if there is any updates happened on the code automatically.
[*** This will throw an error, as there is no versioning enabled in the S3 bucket, without versioning we will not be able to keep a track on the updated versions]
	Once after enabling the versioning, this will automatically completes the pipeline setup.
2. Now, try to update the code from the Developer machine - open index.html and do some changes on the code (view recording/notes for reference) - come to previous step (cd ..) [deploy_dir] - now zip this file command (zip -r [filename.zip] .) [filename = this indicates the new code file, here it is sampleapp.zip] - now, try to push it inside the S3 bucket using command (from another document : don't forget to change the bucket name accordingly)
3. Try to refresh the IP once the deploy has been done, where you can see the updated file content.


Task:
1. Creating Notification using SNS
Steps:
Create SNS topic with subscribers.
Go to Deploy - Applications - select the app - Notify - create notification rule - provide name - Select the Event for triggers accordingly - Attach the existing SNS topic as target.
[*** You will get an error because now codedeploy is going to communicate with SNS, so when there is a need for service to service communication, we need to attach a role; try to attach the role and check the output]

Deletion:
1. CodePipeline
2. CodeDeploy = Application & Deployments
3. CloudTrail
4. Cloudwatch
5. EC2 Instance (Developer & Prod)
6. IAM User
7. IAM Roles & Policies
8. S3 Buckets & Objects








