Introduction to SDLC:
	Stands for Software Development LifeCycle. It is a process used by software development teams to design, develop, test, and deploy high-quality software efficiently. 
	This involves the different phases to initiate the software production based on the clients requirement.

We need to understand the 6 crucial phases of SDLC in designing any software application. 
1. Planning
2. Requirement Analysis
3. Designing
4. Implementation
5. Testing
6. Deployment & Maintanence

	Development team will commence production post agreeing on the terms and conditions discussed between the client and the development team regarding all the proceedings and requirements.

	In the Planning phase client and the development team will discuss the basic requirements for the software like the purose of the application, details about the end user of the product, key elements like format and attributed of the application for designing, and the overall user interfaces design of the software

	This comes to the 2nd stage Requirement Analysis, here we get information about each element to design the software is discussed, validating the installation elements in the application according to the client's requirements, calibrating the security protocols and performing risk analysis for the application, and all these details are then to be filed in Software requirements specification document (SRS)

	Next comes the designing phase, where the software designers will devise the system design based on the SRS document, this defines the overall architecture of the software and checks its feasibility with the client's requirements, all the details are added to the Design Document Specification (DDS), share with the analysts and stakeholders for review

	There comes the 4th stage coding or implementation phase, in this phase developers start writing code using the languages choose for the software development, this is one of the most important phase as it encapsulates the implementation of the software product, the developers used predefined guidelines and development tools like compilers and debuggers to implement the code.

	This moves to the 5th stage testing, teh developed software is now deployed in multiple test environments to check the functioning of all the attributes in the software architecture after the test cases are completed the quality assurance and testing team may find the bugs in the software which will be forwared to the developer team for debugging, this process continuous until the software is stable and works as per the specification. 

	Finally it comes to the Deployment and Maintanence phase, once the testing completed the application is ready for consumers use, in this phase the development team will setup installation link for the users, after the deployment is completed users begin using the application they may come across with some bugs or errors which needs to be fixed from time to time, maintanence also includes releasing applicaiton updates and enhancemnets for better performance and user experience.


















	